# Tokens may still be stuck in the escrow contract even if the borrower overrides the sanction

# Vulnerability details

## Impact

Tokens will still be stuck in the escrow contract in same cases, even if the borrower overrides the sanction to release funds

## Proof of Concept

Some accounts might be sanctioned due to legal reasons or any reason. If a lender is sanctioned, an escrow contract is created and the sanctioned lender's funds are transferred to this escrow contract. These funds can be released from the escrow contract after the sanction is removed or overridden.

The sanction status of an account is tracked with the ChainAnalysis sanction list. Additionally to that, the borrower has the power to override the sanction of an account. With this power, funds in the escrow can be released even if the account is still sanctioned at the oracle level.  
Here is the `overrideSanction` function:  
[https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-10-wildcat/blob/c5df665f0bc2ca5df6f06938d66494b11e7bdada/src/WildcatSanctionsSentinel.sol#L48C1-L51C4](https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-10-wildcat/blob/c5df665f0bc2ca5df6f06938d66494b11e7bdada/src/WildcatSanctionsSentinel.sol#L48C1-L51C4)

```
  function overrideSanction(address account) public override {
    sanctionOverrides[msg.sender][account] = true;
    emit SanctionOverride(msg.sender, account);
  }
```

Below, you can see the releaseEscrow() function:  
[https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-10-wildcat/blob/c5df665f0bc2ca5df6f06938d66494b11e7bdada/src/WildcatSanctionsEscrow.sol#L33C1-L41C4](https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-10-wildcat/blob/c5df665f0bc2ca5df6f06938d66494b11e7bdada/src/WildcatSanctionsSentinel.sol#L48C1-L51C4)

```solidity
  function releaseEscrow() public override {
    if (!canReleaseEscrow()) revert CanNotReleaseEscrow();

    uint256 amount = balance();

    IERC20(asset).transfer(account, amount); //@audit it will only be transferred to the account. No other option. What if the account is still blocked at token contract level?

    emit EscrowReleased(account, asset, amount);
  }
```

If the sanction is overridden by the borrower, `canReleaseEscrow()` function will return true and assets will be transferred.

The issue here is the assets can only be transferred to the account itself.  
Why is it a problem, you may ask?

The problem is that if an account is sanctioned in ChainAnalysis oracle, that account is very likely to be blocked at the contract level too for some tokens. For example, USDC has a blacklist option.  
The aim of the `sanctionOverride` is being able to release funds even if the account is sanctioned. But if the account is blocked/blacklisted at the contract level, it will not matter if the borrower overrides the sanction or not. The funds can not be transferred regardless of the overriding, and the override function will not serve its purpose.

## Tools Used

Manual review

## Recommended Mitigation Steps

`releaseEscrow()` function is public, doesn't take any arguments, and transfers funds directly to the account. I think this one should remain still, and another function should be added.

The new function should only be called by the account itself, take an address argument, and transfer the funds to the provided address. This way, `sanctionOverride` functionality will serve its purpose even if the account itself is sanctioned at the contract level, and the account owner can transfer his/her funds to another address.

```solidity
  function releaseEscrowToAnotherAddress(address _to) public override {
    if (!canReleaseEscrow()) revert CanNotReleaseEscrow();
->  if (msg.sender != account) revert YouAreNotTheOwnerOfTheFunds();

    uint256 amount = balance();

->  IERC20(asset).transfer(_to, amount);
    emit EscrowReleased(account, asset, amount);
  }
```

---

**Note:** The original submission can be found [here](https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-10-wildcat-findings/issues/382).
