# `asD` instances are vulnerable to reorg attack

# Vulnerability details

## Impact

`asD`contract instances can be hijacked by attackers in case of a reorg and the interests earned in these contracts will be claimed by the attacker.

## Proof of Concept

This protocol allows anyone to create `asD` contract instances with the `asDFactory.sol`. These instances are created with the [new keyword](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.23/control-structures.html#creating-contracts-via-new) without adding a salt, which means they are built with the `create` opcode and the deployed addresses only depend on the nonce of the factory.  
[https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-11-canto/blob/335930cd53cf9a137504a57f1215be52c6d67cb3/asD/src/asDFactory.sol#L33C1-L38C6](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.23/control-structures.html#creating-contracts-via-new)

```solidity
file: asDFactory.sol
    function create(string memory _name, string memory _symbol) external returns (address) {
-->     asD createdToken = new asD(_name, _symbol, msg.sender, cNote, owner()); //@audit it doesn't use a salt. "_name" and "_symbol" also doesn't have to be uniqe.
        isAsD[address(createdToken)] = true;
        emit CreatedToken(address(createdToken), _symbol, _name, msg.sender);
        return address(createdToken);
    }
```

The second thing I would like to point out is that the `_name` and the `_symbol` don't have to be unique when creating `asD`'s. Reference in the Code4rena contest page:  
*"The asDFactory is used to create a new asD tokens. It only exposes a function create that accepts the name and symbol of the token to create. These do not have to be unique."*

These two situations combined make the protocol vulnerable to reorgs, which can happen in any EVM chain.

1. Alice is an artist who plans to use `ERC1155tech` of this protocol for her NFT art project (note: `ERC1155tech` protocol uses `asD` as currency).
    
2. Alice creates an `asD` contract, and uses this newly deployed contract's address in her art project as payment currency.
    
3. Bob sees a network reorg happens and creates an `asD` token with the same name and the same symbol.
    
4. Bob's transaction is executed first, and now Bob is the owner of the `asD` contract, which is deployed in the same address that Alice already started to use.
    
5. Alice's transaction to create `asD` executes after Bob's but does not revert as the name and the symbol doesn't have to be unique.
    
6. Alice's `asD` instance is different than her previous one, but she can't be aware of this because  
    \- Her transaction didn't revert and she didn't get alarmed  
    \- Everything is the same except the owner. The same `asD` address, the same `_name`, and the same `_symbol`. There is nothing to be suspicious about.
    
7. Alice's art collection reaches good volumes and her `asD` contract earns interest. However, she can not withdraw these as she is not the actual owner of that `asD` contract.
    

## Tools Used

Manual review

## Recommended Mitigation Steps

I would recommend using [the new keyword with a salt](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.23/control-structures.html#salted-contract-creations-create2) derived from the `msg.sender`

For example:

```solidity
function create(string memory _name, string memory _symbol) external returns (address) {
+       bytes32 salt = keccak256(abi.encode(msg.sender));
        // Added salt during creation
+       asD createdToken = new asD{salt: salt}(_name, _symbol, msg.sender, cNote, owner());
        isAsD[address(createdToken)] = true;
        emit CreatedToken(address(createdToken), _symbol, _name, msg.sender);
        return address(createdToken);
    }
```

---

**Note:** The original submission can be found [here](https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-11-canto-findings/issues/312).
